- We hereby declare the self to be individual yet interdependent, peculiar yet universal, with all of its magnificent agency rooted in a common ground and linked by a shared destiny.
- We proclaim the right to contradict ourselves (we each contain multitudes, after all), to continually field-test, change, and augment our proclamations, and to honor ourselves not as stationary idols (nouns) but evolutionary processes (verbs).
- We declare our right to explore the full gamut of human truth in its ridiculous, beautiful, sometimes annoying variety, to give expression to subjective worlds of individual difference within greater fields of coherence.
- We hereby agree to prioritize qualitative aspects of being — learning, loving, creating, listening — against the old, obsolete system that elevates material success and financial reward above other values.
- We declare a new relationship to time and the present. We will no longer be controlled by the regimented clock time of industrialization, meshed with an obsolete patriarchal calendar disconnected from Earth’s natural cycles. We declare a return to the “wow of now,” the ever-present origin, where progress is no longer envisioned as linear and mechanical, and we are free to re-indigenize, reconnect with nature’s cycles, go slower, if we so choose.
- We recognize planet Earth as reality’s host. We seek to honor its abundance as well as its limits through forms of exchange that contribute more than they extract, heal more than they rupture, and distribute surplus according to need, not desire.
- We declare that true human freedom depends on the fulfillment of life’s basic necessities, and therefore seek a society where those basic needs are met for all, unconditionally. We agree to work together for a “post-work” future, where people can focus on what is meaningful and sustaining for themselves and their community without fear of hunger, homelessness, and destitution.
- We declare our data to be inalienable extensions of ourselves. We oppose the coercion and trafficking of our data as a breach of basic human rights, and seek a relationship to technology free of deceptive algorithmic coercion. We refuse to be pimped without compensation!
- We agree to aim for a world free from the alienation of hyper-individualism as well as the coercion of collectivism, recognizing that autonomy flourishes through commonly shared resources and ecological symbiosis.
- We honor the world’s esoteric, mystical, spiritual and religious traditions as pathways to self-discovery, and believe these paths can peacefully coexist. We believe the mature individual has the right to pursue realization and revelation by any means they so choose, as long as they do no harm to others in the process.
- We seek an evolution of governance toward new systems and structures that are less centralized, less bureaucratic, less militaristic; more transparent, responsive, polycentric, and local, inexorably tending toward “glocal” systems based on reciprocity and mutual aid.
- We acknowledge the critical role of myth, narrative, symbolism, image, and icon in focusing the collective on ideas and values that elevate us and inspire flourishing. We declare an intention to find, create, and promote new stories, myths, and creative expressions beneficial for our shared future on the Earth.
- We seek to define a proper relationship with our technologies, which should be our servants rather than our masters, collaborators instead of controllers and spies. We appreciate technology’s capacity to liberate us from drudgery, enhance health and security, augment our creative and expressive faculties. But we proclaim the need for a new social contract that holds technological development up to proper public inspection and unbiased evaluation before it is unleashed on us.